>> Brian Holt: Let's go inside here and
search and
I want you to put a header and
an h1 with the name of whatever you
decided to call your video service and
then input type= 'text'
placeholder='Search', cool.
Save that check it out got a nice
little header up here at the top now,
wouldn't it be nice if like all of your
stuff just style itself like this right.
>> Brian Holt: That will be fun.
You should be seeing this nice
little fixed header at the top.
So now we have this input right here.
It doesn't really do anything
particularly interesting.
It just outputs and
inputs to the header but,
we have no access to this
input anywhere in the header.
So what we need now is we need React to
keep track of whatever is in that input.
Right now, we would refer to
this as an untracked input.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
So React has this other ability that we
have not yet used called state, right.
So, I guess something that we didn't
mention is if we go down here to ShowCard.
We have this props.title,
props.year, props.description.
This data, this props object,
is immutable.
You cannot change it.
If I say props to that poster
equals something else,
it's not gonna actually change it, right.
In fact I think React
will give you an error.
Or in other words, don't change it.
[LAUGH] So things that pass down
from the parent to the child
cannot be changed in any way,
shape or form.
It's totally up to the parent
what to pass down, and
the child just gets whatever it gets,
right?
[COUGH] So, that's useful.
However, sometimes, like we need state.
Like we need things that are stateful.
So React has this other concept
besides props called state.
So the peculiar thing about state is
a component can have its own state, right?
Like if we have some sort of like,
you know, if I click on Svideo and
it goes bold or unbold, right,
depending on if I click on it or not.
This particular component can
keep track with its own state,
but only a component can
modify its own state.
So for example if search has,
or ShowCard has state,
the search can't modify
a ShowCard state and vice versa.
ShowCard can't modify search's state,
right.
They can only each modify their own state.
So again if one of them has
a problem you know that the problem
lies right there with the state.
Furthermore, let's say I
gave ShowCard state, right?
And if I have a problem
with Atlanta state here,
I can be assured that billions
didn't cause it, right?
It must live within Atlanta, so it can
only out modify its own instance, right?
So let's take a look what that actually
looks like if you go here to search,
I mean you wanna make search
be able to have its own state.
So far what we've been using what are
called functional components it's often
called stateless functional components,
they are stateless functional components
because as you see here,
there's no mechanism to get the state.
So we need to convert this to a different
kind of component which is called
an ES6 class component.
So what we're gonna do here is we're
just gonna do a little bit of changes.
We're gonna say class Search extends.
>> Brian Holt: Component, and
we're gonna import component up here.
>> Brian Holt: And,
we're gonna remove that.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then this is going to be a render method.
>> Brian Holt: It's kind of awkward to get
this going but nice thing again is that I
don't have to format this,
prettier's gonna do it for me momentarily.
And behold, looks like this, okay, so
I have class Search extends Component.
>> Brian Holt: I imported
Component up here.
You are equally welcome to
say React.Component, and
not import it up here.
This is just how I prefer to do it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, it's gonna give you a
lint error for now, we're gonna fix that.
Basically, what it's saying right now is,
hey, you don't have any state,
this should be a stateless
functional component.
>> Brian Holt: But we're gonna give
it state here in just a second.
>> Brian Holt: So ES6 classes.
Classes came with ES6.
Much to the joy of Java
developers everywhere [LAUGH].
Just kidding.
I like to prod Java developers.
Keep in mind that these,
they're pseudo classes in the sense that
these are not true classical inheritance.
So don't treat them like Java classes.
These are still prototype or inheritance
just like it's always been in JavaScript.
This is just a different way to
write prototype or inheritance.
So definitely keep that in mind.
Okay?
One thing about React component classes
is that they must have a render method.
A 100% of the time without exception
must have a render method.
Okay?
So just keep that in mind, and
the render method must return markup.
That's really the only hard
requirements of React components,
everything else is kind of optional, okay?
>> Speaker 2: And
the render method has to return markup?
>> Brian Holt: Uh-hm.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, yep, yep.
Just like those stateless
functional components,
they also must return markup, right.
It's the same kind of way.
So you can think of those
function bodies of the stateless
functional components as
being the same as render.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so now we have that.
We've converted this to an ES6 class.
>> Brian Holt: So yeah,
ES6 lint is yelling at us,
we're gonna fix that momentarily.
>> Brian Holt: So what we're gonna do
here is we're gonna make a constructor.
And a constructor takes in props,
and then it passes props up.
>> Brian Holt: This is kind of
annoying about ES6 classes.
You just have to do this.
This is just boilerplate that
you have to do it this way.
It takes in props and
you have to pass it up.
Then here we're going to say this.state.
We're initializing our state
here in the constructor.
And we're going to keep track of
the search term, which is going to be,
this is some sort of debug statement.
>> Brian Holt: Eventually we're
gonna make this just an empty string
to be initialized with but, I want to
put this debug statement there so,
you can kind of see how we're using it.
Okay?
So, now we have some state for search.
>> Brian Holt: So what I want you to
do is I want you to come in here and
on the input say value
=
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
you should be able to save that, and
come back over to your browser and
you should see here the value
of this is now tied to
whatever the initial value of state was,
right?
Now I want you to try and type in there.
>> Brian Holt: I'm typing, I promise.
I'm not just making noises.
We broke it, right?
It doesn't work.
>> Speaker 2: Locked me out.
>> Brian Holt: [LAUGH] So, what happened?
We broke the browser.
It's actually pretty hard to do, right?
Typically breaking an input
like this takes work.
[LAUGH].
So let's evaluate what's
actually happening here.
So I press a key, right?
That fires off an event.
That event is caught by React.
And then Reacts says,
an event happened, right?
I'm gonna kick off a re-render.
So it re-renders everything and then finds
the diff of between what was there and
what you're trying to put there now,
right?
So in this particular case, if I type
a letter, and then it re-renders and
it goes back to re-render this value right
here, what is this.state.searchTerm?
But still this is some sort
of debug statement right and
as soon as I press that key
nothing is modifying that right?
So every time I kick off an event you
still end up with that same string,
alright?
Hence, that's why it never changes, right?
Because whenever we kick-off those events,
nothing goes back and modifies its estate.
So it's always gonna
re-render what it has.
Does it make sense?
So now we need to de-break that.
So we need to get an onChange handler.
So onChange equals
this.handleSearchTermChange.
And we'll create a method
called handleSearchTermChange.
The text in an event
calls this.setState and
searchTerm which is going to
be event.target.value.
So, now we have this method here.
HandleSearchTermChange which is
going to be called every time
a change event happens on this input,
right?
And in turn it's gonna call this.setState,
which is a way that you change state.
So again, it's do not do
this.state.searchTerm = 'blah' right?
Don't do that.
The reason being is, this will work,
this actually will modify the state.
React doesn't put any
safeguards in front of you.
The problem is, if you do that,
React doesn't know something changed.
It's not observing for
those sorts of changes.
You need to let React know, hey React I
called set state, now you need to
kick off another re-render, right,
so that's how that happens.
So that's why we call this.set state,
this is just a way that we let React know,
hey I'm updating this,
you need to kick off a re-render.
>> Brian Holt: It's actually,
I'm simplifying there.
To be honest with you, it is actually
batching your changes, so you can
call setState a bunch of times in a row
and it'll only kick off one re-render.
So you're kind of like opting into that
optimization path by using setState.
Or in other words,
do not modify state directly,
that's the take a way here, use setState.
So if I save this,
still not quite there right?
This still doesn't actually work.
If you go back here and
refresh and I type in here,
you're gonna get all
sorts of error messages.
It says you can't read
setState of undefined.
This is new as well.
This finally got long enough that
preview said, I'm gonna wrap this.
So while this looks weird for
HTML to be written this way,
this is very normal to see
React written this way.
Once you start getting these
really long HTML elements,
it's just easier to see
it on multiple lines.
So that's how that happened.
Okay.
So here, handleSearchTerm.
This get's called on every event, right.
Where is this event handler called?
The answer is I don't know, but
the answer is not here, right.
It's not getting called
within this context.
So what is this,
wherever handleSearchTerm is being called,
again, I don't know but it's not search
and it needs to be search, right?
But because we're calling this
stat set state on search we wanna
modify that instance of search.
So in order words we need to bind
the context to be the correct context.
There's several ways to do this, I will
show you the bad way, which inevitably
you'll see somebody write it this way
because it's the lazy way of writing it.
I could totally put .bind(this)}.
I'll save this,
I'm sure lint is going to yell at me.
JS prompt should not use .bind, good job.
But it will work right.
Now this works and
the stays being set correctly.
Why is this bad, this is bad because
if you remember I was telling
you rendering is called a lot right, its
get called every single time that an event
gets kicked off to make
sure something change or
something didn't changed,
>> Brian Holt: What
happens when I call .bind?
It's creating a new function every
single time render gets called.
Which, functions are cheap but
they certainly are not free, right?
And particularly binds,
bind is a pretty expensive one.
Recent versions of Chrome are a lot
better, but if you're more than two or
three versions old of Chrome, or
pretty much any other browser,
it's really expensive.
So in other words,
this is bad, do not do it.
And if you see your colleagues do it,
just throw something at them, right.
So, that one is out.
>> Brian Holt: So, our answer is here.
We're gonna say
this.handleSearchTermChange =
this.handleSearchTermChange.bind(this).
>> Brian Holt: This will happen
once in the constructor and
then it's forever working.
So this looks super awkward, right?
But now any time handle search
term change gets called,
we are guaranteed it's going
to be in the right context.
So again, if we come in here,
now this works again, and
we're not getting any errors.
>> Brian Holt: So you'll see this a lot.
This is valid ES6 today, everything works.
This is the way, for example, for
a long time at Netflix,
I was writing it this way.
>> Speaker 3: Supposed an arrow function
is just as expensive as using bind?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
If you're creating an arrow function
inside of here, yeah it is.